# Project-Team-Formation
Motivation:  This  individual  assignment  titled  Project  Team  Formation  requires  developing  a  software  that  allows  members  to  be  assigned  to  project  teams  taking  into  consideration  specific  constraints  while  attempting  to  meet  objective  criteria  reflecting  ethical  considerations,  aspirations  of  project  owners  and  preferences  of  students.  This  assignment  is  based  on  actual  workplace  practices  and  is  reflective  of  tools  used  for  making  management  decisions  meeting multiple criteria such as increasing profits and improving employer satisfaction while meeting mandatory legal  requirements. To be useful for managers such tools helping to find near optimal solutions (through the use of appropriate  algorithms) must be made easily accessible using custom designed graphical user interfaces and visualization.   Using Java as a vehicle, you are required to demonstrate your understanding of object-oriented design principles, design  patterns,  generics,  graphical  user  interfaces,  unit  testing,  object  relational  mapping,  data  structures  and  algorithms ,  building  on  the  foundations  laid  by  the  Programming  Fundamentals  course.    This Project  Team  Formation  assignment  should incorporate appropriate visual elements and event-handling allowing managers to simulate the  impact  of  their  decisions  visually  (sensitivity  analysis).  It  should  also  assist  the  manager  in  finding  better  solutions  by  using  heuristic  algorithms  and  appropriate  data  structures.  To  manage  the  complexity,  the  assignment  is  divided  into  five  milestones  (starting from week 3 and going until week 11) each carrying 4 marks and a final submission in week 12 carrying 30 marks.  The initial milestones are very prescriptive to help you get started and make steady progress. The final milestone allows  adequate room for creativity in interaction, development of fit for purpose algorithms and the use of appropriate design  patterns  to  improve  usability.    Your  assignment  submitted  will  be  marked  based  on  functional  features,  qualitative  aspects, reflective practices and explorative learning. During the final face to face assessment you will also be required  to justify your design decisions as well as explain how your program can be extended to meet other related requirements. 
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87842051/149447111-80ab4cdc-8501-4294-bad7-6fa17fcfdeb6.png
